
What is React?

React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces.

React is used to build single-page applications.

React allows us to create reusable UI components.

React, sometimes referred to as a frontend JavaScript framework, is a JavaScript library created by Facebook.

React is a tool for building UI components.

How does React Work?
React creates a VIRTUAL DOM in memory.

Instead of manipulating the browser's DOM directly, React creates a virtual DOM in memory, where it does all the necessary manipulating, before making the changes in the browser DOM.

React only changes what needs to be changed!

React finds out what changes have been made, and changes only what needs to be changed.

You will learn the various aspects of how React does this in the rest of this tutorial.

React.JS History
Current version of React.JS is V18.0.0 (April 2022).

Initial Release to the Public (V0.3.0) was in July 2013.

React.JS was first used in 2011 for Facebook's Newsfeed feature.

Facebook Software Engineer, Jordan Walke, created it.

Current version of create-react-app is v5.0.1 (April 2022).

create-react-app includes built tools such as webpack, Babel, and ESLint.

ADVERTISEMENT

Get Certified
COLOR PICKER
colorpicker



To use React in production, you need npm which is included with Node.js.

To get an overview of what React is, you can write React code directly in HTML.

But in order to use React in production, you need npm and Node.js installed.

React Directly in HTML
The quickest way start learning React is to write React directly in your HTML files.

W3Schools Spaces
The easiest way to get started with creating HTML files is W3Schools Spaces!

It is the perfect place to create, edit, and share your work with others!


    React Directly in HTML
The quickest way start learning React is to write React directly in your HTML files.

W3Schools Spaces
The easiest way to get started with creating HTML files is W3Schools Spaces!

It is the perfect place to create, edit, and share your work with others!


Setting up a React Environment
If you have npx and Node.js installed, you can create a React application by using create-react-app.

If you've previously installed create-react-app globally, it is recommended that you uninstall the package to ensure npx always uses the latest version of create-react-app.

To uninstall, run this command: npm uninstall -g create-react-app.

Run this command to create a React application named my-react-app:



